# About
Arduino code for Box Checkout System made for Northeastern's GE 1502 Cornerstone of Engineering course. The full report can be found in the [`Project Report.pdf`](https://github.com/fraander/box-checkout-GE1502/blob/cd91767e55979065e33d0c634b1fc5e07b0d3f42/Project%20Report.pdf) file. Slides to our presentation, featuring videos of the device in action can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Sk__36SG9I3iu4M2FHPTLR6aNy1lUaqUs_Vc8YMY8vI/edit?usp=sharing).

# Executive Summary
Congestion in Northeastern’s dining halls is difficult at peak times due to congestion. The current take-out alternatives that the university provides either require foresight or are environmentally wasteful. The implementation of a new, environmentally-friendly take-out system would increase productivity and give the students an option to eat outside while enjoying a freshly cooked meal. 

To create the product, we first researched patents and similar systems. We based the core idea of our product on Starbucks’ cup checkout system and on the automated checkout and return system found in libraries. Using our newly gained knowledge of the topic, we started the build process. With the use of a KT-Decision Matrix, we decided on the wheel design for dispensing lunch boxes. After using CAD to design each component, we used a mixture of laser-cutting, 3D printing, and woodworking to manufacture the parts of our system. With the pieces ready to go, we wired the electronics, constructed the device, and wrote the code. Once it was constructed, we tested our device and analyzed it for changes we should make.

We found the wheel had trouble keeping the boxes aligned while spinning, so we added protrusions to help guide them. The frame and boxes required more fit and finish, so we added a fresh coat of paint. Our RFID readers were very delicate so we learned to be more careful with power when using them after replacing a few readers due to failures. After these changes, our prototype was ready to showcase!

To use our system, the user types in their NUID, the machine scans a box, and the user turns the wheel to dispense it. Then, to return the box, the user scans the box and places it back in the stack. 
